<center > 北京师范大学2018-2019学年第一学期 “C++程序设计” </center>

<center><font size=12><b>课堂练习四</b></fontfont></center>



| 姓    名 |   学    号   | 日    期  |
| :------: | :----------: | :-------: |
|  袁宇昊  | 201611130126 | 2018.12.5 |



## Group 1 exercises

You have to finish all the problems in this group.

#### Exercise 1:

Fill in the blanks in each of the following statements: 

a)	Treating a base-class object as a(n)	___derived-class object___  can cause errors. 

b)	Polymorphism helps eliminate ___similar___  logic. 

c)	If a class contains at least one pure virtual function, it’s a(n) ___virtual___	class. 

d)	Classes from which objects can be instantiated are called ___concrete___	classes. 

e)	The destructors of any derived classes are also virtual if ___base-class___ destructor is declared virtual. 

f)	Constructors cannot be declared ___virtual___. 

g)	Dynamic binding with virtual functions occurs only off ___reference___  and	 ___pointer___. 

h)	Overridable functions are declared using keyword ___virtual___	. 

i)	To call a function appropriately at execution time is known as ___Dynamic binding___	.



#### Exercise 2:

State whether each of the following is true or false. If false, explain why. 

a)	Polymorphism enables “programming in the specific.”  

**True** slide 4

b)	With polymorphism, one function call can cause different actions to occur. 

**True** especially the virtual function

c)	Polymorphism is implemented only via dynamic binding. 

**False** also statics binding

d)	After the derived-class destructor runs, the destructors for all of that class’s base classes run all the way up the hierarchy. 

**False** it happens only with a base-class pointer points a derived-class with virtual destructors   .But if a derived-class runs its destructor,it only runs its own.

e)	Objects of an abstract class may be instantiated. (Deitel)

**False** an abstract class contains at least one pure virtual function.So the virtual functions need to be defined by its derived-class.



## Group 2 exercises

Please select **one** topic from this group and discuss it with the members in your group, then write your opinion below.  

**Topic 2**:

A class Rational with a lot of operator overloading member functions.

Weakness:

Denominator cannot be 0 . The program ignores this situation.

no rational simplification(like fractional).

cannot divided by 0.

**Topic 3**:

```c++
cout << 14 << " + " << b << " = " << 14 + b << endl;
```

Reporting error messages when compiling this new line.

```c++
C:\Users\HASEE\Desktop\rational.cpp|82|error: no match for 'operator+' (operand types are 'double' and 'Rational')|//error massage
```

the massage says that there is no match for 'operator+' with 'double' and 'Rational'. Obviously, type 'double' means '14' , and type 'Rational' means 'b', because there is only one '+' operator in this line. 

So why no match ? Simply we did not define operator '+' between 'double' and 'Rational'. The operator '+' overloading member functions we defined in class Rational only support 'Rational' and 'Rational'.

So how do we solve it ? Two ways. 

One is trans '14' double into '(14,1)' Rational.

```c++
cout << 14 << " + " << b << " = " << Rational(14) + b << endl;
```

Or we define another overloading operator '+' function as non-member.

```c++
friend Rational operator +(const Rational& a,const Rational &b);//in class

Rational operator +(const Rational& a,const Rational &b){//out class
    return Rational((a._n * b._d) + (a._d * b._n), a._d * b._d);
}
```

when this function deal with '14+b', it trans 14 into Rational a.

Here is the problem:

why this line

```c++
cout<< b + 14 <<endl;
```

is ok , while 14 + b is not.

## Group 3 exercises

Please select **one** exercise from this group and attempt to program it， then write here the questions you want ask during the seminar time. 

Exercise 1:

see Group3Exercise1.cpp

Question:

```c++
cout << p1 += p2 <<endl;//error
cout << (p1+=p2) <<endl;//ok

cout << p1 + p2 <<endl;//ok
cout << (p1+p2) <<endl;//ok
```

error massage :

```c++
error: no match for 'operator<<' (operand types are 'Polynomial' and '<unresolved overloaded function type>')|
```



